His image has become iconic. The thin bearded aesthetic religious leader,
who had turned to one Western friendly country into a theocratic regime and a
rogue state I'm of course talking about I Ru must of Harvey.
Koman the Supreme leader of the Iranian revolution
From Iran.
He would incite Iranians and Muslims around the world to oppose the great Satan
America and America reciprocated this favor by imposing draconian sanctions
on Iran. And by isolating the country,
pop culture also played its part by elevating Koman and the Iranians to you.
The status of top world, bad guys in second place.
Only after the Soviets. Now, if you grow up in the 1980s,
you're probably familiar with the faceless pilots taken down by Tom Maverick
cruise in the movie, top gun. They fly Meg fighter jets,
but they're not Soviets.
So they have to be Iranians or maybe you have watched.
And re-watched the epic intro seek naked gun where Les Nielsen beats the crap
out of a group of anti-American leaders,
including an ITO sporting a Mohawk under his turban,
or if you are a hopeless geek,
can you surely remember that Batman issue when Koman hires the joker as Iranian
ambassador to the UN so that he could kill the whole general assembly with
poisoning gas,
but he is not directed by Tony Scott May who rest in beast nor
scripted by DC comics.
This is why today we're going to look at the complex experiences that shaped K
oman into becoming a leading Clara who went on to oppose the emperor of Iran
and to become a revolutionary at the age of 79,
we will also learn how his relationship with America in this situation was
more ambiguous than both parties wanted us to believe.
The man who would become known as I holo Romani was born Ru Mr. Fave MUA,
the youngest of six siblings. His date of birth is dispute did,
but we are gonna settle for this video on the 24th of September, 1902.
And his place of birth was town in what was then the kingdom of Persia,
which later became Iran like the majority of the population in Iran.
He was born into a family of the sheer Muslim faith family who claimed to be
descended from the prophet Muhammad Ru's father SI staffer Al Shahi
Aloma was a high ranking cleric bearing the title of hiatal Islam.
And let's make a quick stop here for one pronunciations,
bit difficult in this one, please give me a break.
And the second clarification we need to say who the sheers are and what the
difference is between them and the majority Muslim sec, the sons, the,
these two factions share many spiritual and religious practices as their schism
was political in nature. After the death of Muhammad in 632,
his advisor Abu backer became the first Califf or successor to the prophet
tasked with leading the Islamic nation.
But his leadership was challenged by the followers of Ali, the prophet's cousin,
and son-in-law this latter faction originated the sheer sec.
He believed that the leadership of the Islamic nation belongs to the direct
descendants of the prophet. On the other hand,
Sunni Muslims believe that the leadership of the community is not a birthright.
It can, and it must be earned. And now let's look at religious type.
A Mueller indicates a religious leader or a teacher in a madrassa or religious
school.
The horrific title of Hoja Islam or proof of Islam is given only
to Hyat ranking scholars who once progressed to the next level are addressed as
desire tos. And with that outta the way, let's get back to our story.
When Raha was very small, his father died according on sources,
he was still an infant, but according to CIA to classify documents,
he was five years old. We also know for sure that Al's father was assassinated,
but sources differ on how maybe the killer was a bandit,
but the CIA source claims that he was killed by a local governor for taking part
in the so-called Persian constitutional revolution of
19 0 6, 8 16. Roha had to experience another trauma. When his mother also died,
the oldest of the siblings,
his brother mortaza then took charge of him and made sure that Roha continued
the family tradition by studying in various Islamic schools. At 19,
Roha traveled to a where he studied religion under ITO Arbor, Al Erie,
a well known Islamic scholar in 1922,
Raha followed H E to the Fay madrassa in qu Iran's intellectual
center for Islamic studies here,
Raha distinguished himself in a variety of studies,
which would shape his political career, including ethics, philosophy, and law,
all subjects that he would go on to teach in 1932,
Raha married the daughter of a prominence CLE from the capital to a marriage,
which gave him seven children.
Two of which unfortunately died in infancy in 1937,
his old master ITO Erie died.
He continued to grow his reputation as a learned scholar,
by becoming the assistant to another leading ITO who sane Barra JDI.
It was around this period that he started to become known as Holloman
committee's residence in com was mostly dead to teaching and studying,
but it may have been at this stage that he started to develop a political
concern. The mid 1930s were in fact,
the years in which the SHA and SHA the king of Kings Raza,
PLAR launched a series of reforms,
which could have undermined the authority of the sheer clergy.
These were things like opening the first university or emancipation women by
demanding for that or veils to be discarded in 1944.
Koman co-authored a book condemning VAHA who by then had abdicated in favor of
his son, Muhammad Reza PLAR. But beyond that,
we don't have any other anti-government activities on come's record.
The only thing we know for certain is that throughout the 1940s and 1950s,
Koman continued to teach gen QUM becoming a nationally renowned,
an Islamic jurisprudence. It wasn't until 1962,
that Koman would raise his voice and to become a scourge for the rule of the
SHA,
The sh and cha, or more simply just the SHA Mohamed Raza.
PLAR RDA par in 1941, his father razor,
just razor without the Moham had abdicated following a preemptive occupation of
Iran by the UK and the USSR who wanted to prevent a German invasion.
In August of 1953,
the Shar was forced to flee by the supporters of prime minister Mohamed Moza
Moza day had successfully nationalized oil production,
which until now had been controlled by British companies.
This of course did not make Britain happy,
who sought assistance from the us to remove Moza deck from power and reinstate.
The sharp formerly P Lai maintains the nationalization of oil production,
but behind the scenes,
he shared the profits with the us led international consortium.
This is when the SHA became the strongest ally of the us in the middle east and
central Asia. With the assistance of Washington,
the SHA launched a white revolution,
a reform program aimed at developing the country's infrastructure. Most of all,
this was a program of modernization and westernization,
which continued some of the work already started by RA senior,
but nobody liked these reforms left w fair actions wanted more.
They were wary of the Shas dependence from the us and were angered by the
unequal distribution of all revenues.
The religious conservative side criticized the reforms of being too radical.
You really can't make everybody happy,
but what brought everybody together in really hating the SHA was the corruption
in his government and his reliance on autocratic rule and the power, the Sava,
the feared secret police as descend escalated.
So did the activities of the Sinn organization originally established stringed
and funded with CIA support as confirmed by a Senate foreign relations committee
reports at it peak,
the S had formally recruited 15,000 many of whom also managed in formal
spine networks, therefore permeating all of society in the early 1960s,
both factions opposing the sharp, the secular left,
and the conservative clerics who would've normally opposed each other,
started to coalesce and found an inspiring leader in Koman who
had by now escalated and ranks and become an I Toler by now more than 60,
instead of retiring,
like many of us would choose to do this respected religious scholar decided to
risk everything to gain center stage in a budding revolutionary movement,
KA outspoken opposition to the government escalated from 1962 to 1963
with a series of speeches and pamphlets,
which denounced the SHS latest proposed reforms,
which included women's suffrage and the opening of public offices to the non
shear, be minority, according to a declassified CIA reports,
these activities were a concerted effort of the qu mus Kaman. Well,
here's kind of a sch mark,
a figurehead who had been put in place because the clergy believed they could
control him and manipulate his operations in the early hours that the 5th of
June, 1963, the came a knocking in Aqua Kaman was arrested.
It happened during the month of Mahama holy period, dedicated to mourning,
according to Islam, the outrage,
it was immediate resulting in widespread riots with high casualties in the
capital city of Toran and in the town of Cheraz.
So was all of this in the Mueller's plans. You see,
they wanted to make a puppet out of Koman,
but they instead it created a Marty and a true revolutionary leader who would
not let himself be controlled in November of 1963,
while still under house arrest Koman did something unexpected.
And certainly not in character with the commonly accepted view of him being a
rapidly anti-American leader,
he sent a message to the government using as a conduit professor KARE from the
theology department at Tiran university,
let's quote a piece from the very same CIA report.
Kaman explained that he was not opposed to American interests in Iran.
On the contrary,
he thought the American presence was necessary as a counterbalance to Soviet and
possibly British influence.
Kaman also explained his belief in cooperation between Islam and other world
religions, especially Christian them. So now you've gotta be wondering, well,
what was Washington's response? And I'd like to tell you,
but the next paragraph, well, it's been fairly heavily redacted.
So with the us governments have been open to cooperating with the ITO.
Another CIA memorandum issued in November of 1978. Sorry to jump ahead.
So many years there is doubtful of KO's leadership skills suggesting that he may
not be capable of controlling the revolution that he himself had sparked with
the risk of either a leftist faction or a military dictatorship taking power
over the sharp combined with the other comments about in BI a puppet of the qu
Muellers. It sounds like the CIA and the governments in general were seriously
underestimating this guy, whatever opinion the us government had of him.
The ITO continued his rise as leader of the opposition.
After being released in April of 1964,
he resumed his incendiary sermons against the sharp by now PA Lavi.
He had had enough and in November he expelled the ITO and his Exar began
Initially Kaman settled in Turkey from where he continued his vocal attacks on
PLAR calling him a porn of the us and Israel by 1965, the Turkish,
they also had had enough and begged the shot to take him back.
But Kaman preferred to settle in the city of Najaf for center of sheer
scholarship in Iraq, it was here.
The committee formulated his doctrine known as guardianship of the jut.
This concept marks a departure from sheer founding principles.
According to this doctrine,
when the divinely inspired descendants of the prophet is absent,
religious and political leadership of the community can be assumed by the
jurist, the expert in Islamic. All, this is exactly what Keman was.
So he was basically saying, it's totally okay if I become the leader of Iran,
his absence from the country did not prevent him from stoking descent.
The ITO took to recording his own sermons on audio cassettes,
which were then smuggled into Iran. And by the way, if you are 20 or younger,
an audio cassette was a plastic recording support about the size of a Blackberry
in the could store up to two hours of music or speech on a magnetic tape.
By the way, if you're under 20 or younger,
a black brief phone was what your parents used to take calls from the office
before they came to their senses. And if you're 20 or younger,
and you're watching a 20 minute video about the ITO OMA, well, well done. You,
where was I? Ah, yes, the tapes, these tapes found fertil ground,
especially amongst the lower classes in the expanding urban centers and amongst
university students,
regardless whether they were left leaning or aligned to the religious, right?
So you might be wondering now, well, what was his agenda point?
A the IA Taylor opposed the Shas efforts to give equal rights to women point B.
He opposed land reforms deemed ineffective in feeding the population
C he wanted to free Iran from foreign influence,
especially that of the us and USSR D he protested the inclusion
of religious minorities in positions of power,
especially the Baha and five.
Finally Kaman was a vocal critic of the state of Israel,
whom he accused of manipulating the sharp over the 1970s,
descent against pal grew in its intensity.
Kaman kept attacking him from DJA and the SHA may have taken his revenge in
1977. In fact, Carman's first born son Mustafa died in mysterious circumstances.
The was due to our heart in agar committee claims that Mustafa had been killed
by the government
In the late 1970s,
CIN enjoyed a high standing amongst both conservative Muslims and the
sympathizers of the, to dare the local communist party.
When on the 7th of January, 1978, a state controlled newspaper question,
the ITO as patriotism,
and even as sexuality protestors marched in the streets of Tiran,
the police filed on them and violence escalated dis marked the official
beginning of the Iranian revolution for the following 13 months, the police,
the armed forces and the faced protestors across the country,
killing them in the dozens or the hundreds as customer in Shia Islam.
Each massacre was celebrated by a morning period of 40 days,
followed by demonstrations. Violence would erupt again and so on.
And in 40 days cycles Iran spiraled into chaos.
The SHA who by now was suffering from late stage cancer,
had little resolved to address the situation. Meanwhile, in Iraq,
Coman continued to rally.
The opposition that had is until Saddam Husein finally expelled him from Najaf
the ITO. He moved to the outskirts of Paris. And from there,
he planned his return as a triumphant leader of the revolutionary struggle.
And apparently it was from France that he made his second attempt to seek an
Alliance, or at least an understanding with the us.
The aim of his messages was to reassure the us that a change in leadership in
Iran compromise their access to crude oil. In exchange the,
I asked the us government to use their influence to hold back the army from
launching a coup. So did Carta comply? Well, this is not clear.
It is true that the military eventually did not oppose the revolution,
but this may have been due to simple opportunism in January, 1979,
the Sharons family, they left Iran officially to take vacation, but in reality,
uh, this was voluntary exile on the 1st of February,
I OMA returned to run welcomed as a victorious leader by the crowd,
following a referendum on the 1st of April, 1979,
Iran officially became an Islamic Republic and Koman became the Supreme leader
of this, the cratic state.
It was the end of more than 2000 years of monarchy in Persia and
Iran.
So before I continue with the momentous events of the 1980s,
give you an example of how Koman now empower,
applied his doctrine of the guardianship of the jut. So the new constitution,
it declared Shia Islam to beat the official religion of Iran being the faith of
90% of the population.
It also acknowledges minority groups as official religions, such as Sony,
Muslims, Christianity, Zoro AISM, and even Judaism,
which is surprising considering come's anti Zionist stance. However,
the constitution excluded the Baha faith, making it effectively illegitimate.
And this is not surprising seeing as how the Shas pro Baha policy was one of the
many reforms that triggered koi into joining the opposition.
The Baha religion formed as an offshoot of shear Islam in the mid 19th century.
And it was view as her by many senior Muellers after the rise of
Romania Supreme leader,
up to 20,000 Baha worshipers fled the country to avoid persecution imprisonment,
or even execution by May, 1983,
at least 150 Baha men and women had been hanged or shot by the revolutionary
government.
The persecution of the Baha is just one of the repressive nature of
this revolutionary regime. First, his regime ousted from positions of power,
the former secular allies.
Then it took political vengeance with hundreds of people who had worked for the
Shaz regime, reportedly being executed.
The remaining domestic opposition was then suppressed its members being
systematically imprisoned or killed.
Iranian women were also required to wear the,
a Western music and alcohol were bands.
And the punishments prescribed by Sharia law were reinstated.
A new armed force that passed on would make sure that all aspects of Sharia law
would be strictly enforced. The power is grown over time,
sort of becoming a parallel police army and air force with a strict focus on
enforcing Sharia law and defending the values of the Islamic revolution.
So the question really is anything really changed since the times of the SAAC.
The first years of a revolutionary governments are the most delicate ones,
but the Islamic Republic survived two major trials.
The us embassy hostage crisis, and the war with Iraq on the 22nd of October,
was allowed entrance into the us to be treated for cancer.
On the 4th of November, a mob of some 3000 protestors,
mostly university students stormed the us embassy in Iran and took hostage about
63 staff members. And what was Kim's involvement in this crisis? Well,
very little, actually the storming was a result of a spontaneous demonstration.
So he had no idea that it take place and he probably could have done without it,
but once he started, well,
he sort of got along with it and offered support to the protestors.
It was in fact, during November of 1979,
that he first started using in his speeches.
His now infamous phrase to describe the us Americans are the great Satan,
the wounded snake,
but his government still had to negotiate with Satan talks with the Carter
administration dragged on for months with Iran demanding that the Shas financial
assets in the us be returned to the country in exchange for the hostages.
The us in reply froze all Iranian assets and filed a lawsuit with the
international court of justice in a April,
1980 Carter's administration authorized a military rescue operation,
which became a failure before it had even started eight special forces.
Helicopters had stealth entered Iran, but when three of them malfunctions,
the mission was aborted. Sadly on the way back,
one of these TROs crashed causing the death of eight servicemen.
The secretary of states,
Cyrus VA resigned as for Carter presidency was doomed in may the
us and its allies. It imposed an embargo on Iran,
but the governments of Tiran still played hardball in negotiations.
What tipped the scale was the second calamity that Beel the young Republic,
the start of the war with Iraq on the 22nd of September, 1980,
realizing that Iran could not fight SU dam in the chokehold of a trade embargo.
Kaman agreed to release the hostages on the 20th of January, 1981,
the new us president Ronald Reagan had been inaugurated just 20 minutes earlier.
The crisis had been resolved, but did had lasted too long,
not to sour the already frosty relationship between Iran and the United States,
their interactions. They remain hostile to this very day.
For most of the 1980s,
the Islamic Republic had to contend with a bloody war against Sadams regime.
The Iran, Iraq war, the longest of the 20th century dragged on until July, 1988.
And it combined horrors from both world wars because of it use of trench
warfare, poison gas and bombings on civilian targets.
The Iraqis war aim was to gain control over the Chatal Arab,
the confluence of the river's Tigres and the Euphrates,
the only access to the sea.
They also had in mind to stop the spread of the shear Islamic revolution into
their sunny secular state Cam's regime could not field in Army's modern
mechanized as Sadams,
who would enjoy support from the us and most sunny Arab countries.
What they could offer though, was numbers and fanaticism.
Thousands of boy soldiers were indoctrinated by Muellers,
into launching suicidal human wave attacks armed only with a plastic key.
The key that would open the gates to paradise after their death,
as Martys of the revolution, but it turned is out.
The human wave attacks do not make strategic progress.
Toran was in dire need of more complex tactics and weapons systems,
namely long range missiles, Kaman regime.
It would procure them in 1985 in a way which shows how ambitious and confusing
the us Iran relationship was the resulting mess.
It became known as the Iran Contra affair,
something you might have heard of Iran made the first step with a secret request
to Washington to buy up to 1,500 long range missiles,
president Reagan and his national security advisor.
Robert McFarland saw a chance to kill two birds with one stone first grasp for
the occasion to negotiate with Iran for the release of seven Americans taken
hostage by he, the Lebanese sheer fighters, loyal Koman seconds,
make some cash through the arm sales to funds the Contra anti communist
insurgents in Nicaragua. Yes, it was pretty complicated along the way.
Reagan and McFarland killed another bird called American rule of law.
Their actions violated the trade embargo on Iran violated the presidential miss
not to negotiate with terrorists and violated the recently pass Boland
agreement, which forayed the government from intervening in Nicaragua. Wow.
And that is why you've probably heard of the Iran Contra affair,
But let's get back to the, even with venue missiles,
the Iranians were not able to break the front line. The war ended in July, 1988,
its a result.
Well that was a costly sta mate between half a million and a million people had
died.
Half a million soldiers were crippled at 400 billion of damaged infrastructure
was done for almost no gain Sudan in the end,
got his outlet to the sea only to return it to Iran in 1991 in exchange for
their neutrality during the first Gulf war,
but actually Kaman and his regime that gained something from the conflict, Orbe,
it, something immaterial the total war against an ethnically Arab Sonny secular
enemy had consolidated the resolve and institutions of the young revolutionary
government in a,
that was non-A Shia and theocratic only a few months after the end of the war in
February, 1989, the ITO deman made headlines again.
When he issued a fatwa against writer, Salman Rushdi, accusing him of tinging.
The name of the prophet Mohamed in his novel Satan versus a fatwa is a legal
document issued by a mul,
which in this case carried a death sentence against the writer and a monetary
reward, Salman rushed. He was forced into hiding and to seek police protection,
KA Amy's condemnation of the Satan versus though it was shortlived four months
later in June of 1989 Koman he died regarded as a hero
or condemned as the ultimate villain, both outside and within his country.
His reputation as a ruthless who would not refrain from harming exiling or
killing opponents to achieve his goal is certainly well deserved.
But isn't that true of so many leaders around the Globes,
wasn't that true for SHA PLAR himself or Saddam or Saudi Arabia.
And yet they did and still do have the support of America.
And the west Kaman did open himself up to America on at least two occasions and
he may have been ignored or underestimated. On the other hand,
the Iran Contra affair could have been the occasion to haw the frost,
but it seems like Kamas.
I advised decision to back the protestors during the hostage crisis had made his
relationship with America, impossible to men.
Now professor MCM SA of Tiran university espouses a geopolitical
theory,
according to which America and Iran should not antagonize each other as Tiran is
the natural ally of the us in the region of footholds in this country would
provide access to central Asia, the Gulf and its resources.
It was the case in the past and who knows,
maybe it will happen again in the future, but at least for the past 40 years,
us and Dran foreign policy seems to have missed the trick.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up button below and don't forget to subscribe.
We've got brand new videos four times a week,
so hit that bell and you'll be notified about those.
Also I've got another channel called top tens,
which I'm gonna link to in the description below,
which you can go check out if you want to or watch another biographics video,
it's up to you or watch someone else's stuff. That's cool too,
but it's better if you watch mine, that would be great.
And I'll see you next time.